---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-02-02
---
When I did the BrowserHistory 1 the first time, I tried to follow each step on the instruction to create a file, directory, HTML file first. From the step 1 to 3, I did them by myself without watch the screencast, Because I wanted to see if my knowledge of VS Code and what I had learned in class would work on my own. Therefore, I successfully made everything in these works. I feel a little proud of myself because it shows I can run the localhost, create basic things in VS code, and how it connects to the browser even it took me about 5 mins to finish them. For the rest of the lists, I unable to figure out, so I go to watch the screencast, follow the steps to do it synchronously, take notes on what I should put on the code for each type of thing, and learned on it. After I have done BH1 for the first time, it took me about 35 mins, which is in DNF level. When I am trying to do it the second time, I only use my notes to do it as best as I can. I would try to go back to the screencast if I stuck in some parts that I really cannot figure out. It took me 24 mins to finish the second time, which I feel I am more experienced than the first time. At the third time of trial, it took me about 17 mins to finished it by only look at my notes and by my memory. The BrowserHistory 2 and 3 seem not that complex and hard compare to BrowserHistory 1. In BrowserHistory 2, I did the first try by watching the screencast to follow the step to finish it, because I have no idea of how to link style.css to an HTML file and have no idea of how to put the code by display font, color, size, margins, logo…etc. on CSS. It took me about 16 mins to finish the first time, which supposes be shorter because I have lots of misspellings when I was typing. I did take notes on what should I put on CSS to present font, color, size, margins, logo. I only use my notes and my memory to finish the second time and it took me about 9 mins, which is Rx level. It’s so fun to make different styles on the webpages by input different codes in VS code. The BrowserHistory3 is the easiest one because I finished the first time in Avg time level and the second time in the Rx level. I watch the screencast and follow the steps the first time because I have no idea how to make changes to the layout. I wrote down notes for each layout, then I use them to do the second time. 

My advice is to do the most of parts as you can on your own first (maybe some easiest stuff), watch the screencast, and follow its step to do it synchronously. You can pause the video after the director finished the part, then you can do it on your own. At that time, I suggest you take some notes on each part of the screencast, such as what type of code you should put on VS Code by what type of things you are trying to display on the webpage. You will be learned from what you wrote down and enhance your memory. On the last try, I am suggesting only use the notes and your memory to finish it because you have more experiences in the past tries, so it will take you a shorter time to finished it without the screencast. I also suggest copying and paste some words directly as needed, because it is faster, easier, and lower the rate of misspellings. Overall, I learned a lot about how to structure the document, create links, put pictures, display a table of contents in the VS Code to display it on the webpage. I also learned how to make some style designs and layouts through HTML and CSS to display it nicer on the webpage. I feel fun and enjoyable in learning those kinds of stuff by creating things on the webpage.
